## OSI Model-> Theoretical Model

**Application Layer**
This is the application part . The layer that user interacts with . Implemented in software.

**Presentation Layer**
This layer handles encryption, encoding, translation, etc of the data received by the application layer

**Session Layer**
Setting up and managing the connections. Enables processing of data as well as termination these sessions . Takes care of authorization and authentication.

**Transport Layer**
The data received from session layer is divided into segments which have a sequence number attached to them
This sequence number is then used later on the receiver end to align the data back in proper sequence
Controls the amount of data being transported.
Adds checksum . Takes care of integrity and sequence of data.
This layer has `Flow Control` which manages the upload speed of the sending device according to the receiving device so we do not lose any data packet during the data sending process.
UDP and TCP

**Network Layer**
Router comes into play
Provides logical addressing (sender's and receiver's address) - IP addressing applied for packets transmission
Routing Protocols
Load Balancing

**Data Link Layer**
This takes data packet from network layer and does logical address and physical addressing.
Physical Addressing - MAC Address
*`Frame`* -> data unit that has MAC Address to it added by the data link layer
DL Layer adds MAC Address to frames or data segments received from network layer.


**Physical Layer**
Send the data to the physical router via wires 
Transmits bits via cables and wires


***Real World Example***
ME => A => P => S => T => N => D => P => Router => P => D => N => T => S => P => A => MY FRIEND.


# TCP IP MODEL -> Practical Model
## or Internet Protocol Suite

## Layers of TCP/IP
- Application Layer
- Transport Layer
- Network Layer
- Data Link Layer
- Physical  Layer
### Pointers
- The working of the layers is same as OSI Model but with few exceptions.
- OSI model's Application, Presentation, Session are merged together into Application.
- This is used practically and OSI is used for theory and concepts.

