
### 1 . Repeater
- Operates at the physical layer.
- This device takes the network signal and sends it again in the desired direction before the signal becomes weak over the same network.
- Used to extend the length to which the signal can be transmitted over the same network.
- These don't amplify the network but they regenerate the detected network with the same strength.
- They regenerate the network by copying signal bit by bit .
- 2 port device
### 2 . Hub
- A multiport repeater.
- Cannot filter data , and hence the data packets are sent to all connected devices . "Collision domain of all hosts connected through hub is 1"
- ***Collision domain*** : A collision domain is **a network segment that is shared but not bridged or switched**; packets collide because users are sharing the same bandwidth.
- Do not have intelligence to find the best past for data packers which leads to inefficiencies and wastage.
  
  #### Types
  1.  ***Active Hub*** : - This has its own power supply and can clean, boost and relay the given network. Used to extend maximum distance between two nodes.
  2. ***Passive Hub*** : - This takes power from the connected wires. This sends the network from the wire without clean and boosting the network. Cant be used to extend distance between nodes.
### 3 . Bridge
- Operates on data link layer.
- A repeater which adds on functionality of filtering content by reading MAC Addresses of source and destination.
  
 #### **Types**
 1. ***Transparent Bridge*** : In this the stations are completely unaware of the presence of bridge. That is , whether or not a bridge is added or deleted from the network, reconfiguration of station is unnecessary 
    
     *Two processes:*
			1 . Bridge Forwarding
			2 . Bridge Learning
			
2. ***Source Routing Bridge*** : Routing operation is performed by source station and the frame specifies which route to follow . A special frame called discovery frame is sent to discover frame , which spreads through the entire network using all possible paths to the destination.
### 4. Switch
- operates on data link layer
- multiport bridge
- Has a buffer and design to boost efficiency
- Has large number of ports hence less traffic
- Can perform error checking before forwarding data , hence makes network efficient as error containing packets aren't forwarded.
- Divides collision domain of hosts , but broadcast domain remains same
### 5 . Router
- This operates at Network layer.
- Connects LANs and WANs.
- This has a dynamic routing table.
### 6 . Gateway
- It is a passage to connect two networks together that may work upon different networking models.
- Messenger agents that take data from one system, interpret it and transfer it to another system.
### 7. Brouter
- Bridge and router combined.